Modify rule S5145(PHP): Update text to the Education Framework structure (APPSEC-227) (#1367)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S5145/php/how-to-fix-it/php.adoc

=== How to fix it in Core PHP

include::../../common/fix/code-rationale.adoc[]

==== Noncompliant code example

[source,php,diff-id=1,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
$input = $_GET["input"];
error_log($input); // Noncompliant
----

==== Compliant solution

[source,php,diff-id=1,diff-type=compliant]
----
$input = $_GET["input"];
$badchars = array("\n", "\r", "\t");
$safeinput = str_replace($badchars, "", $input);
error_log($safeinput);
----

> include::../../common/fix/how-does-this-work.adoc[]

Reviewer: LGTM in general but I am a bit afraid by the proposed compliant code.

=== How to fix it in Core PHP

include::../../common/fix/code-rationale.adoc[]

==== Noncompliant code example

[source,php,diff-id=1,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
$input = $_GET["input"];

error_log($input); // Noncompliant
----

==== Compliant solution

[source,php,diff-id=1,diff-type=compliant]
----
$input = $_GET["input"];

if(preg_match("[^A-Za-z0-9_\-]", $input)){
  $safeinput = '[' . base64_encode($input) . ']';
}else{
  $safeinput = $input;
}
error_log($safeinput);
----

include::../../common/fix/how-does-this-work.adoc[]

> Here, the example compliant code uses the `preg_replace` function to remove any non safe character from the input.

Reviewer: This does not work with the chosen compliant solution.
```suggestion
Here, the example compliant code uses the `preg_match` function to check if the input contains any unsafe character. In which case, the `base64_encode` function is used to prevent any injection while keeping the input original content.
```
